Thank you very much, everyone, for participating and coming here, and we're together and practicing
, thinking of all living beings, and then practicing is very wonderful, and also reflecting on the
teachings, and all this is according to the teachings of the Great Teacher, Buddha Shabir. Thank
you very much.
Thank you very much, everyone, for participating and for participating and for participating in
this wonderful presentation. Thank you very much.
Before we begin the teaching, we always correct our motivation, the good motivation of the positive
, good motivation, beautiful motivation. That again is, we have many motivations, so among that, we
're going to raise up the good motivation,
which is joy and appreciation, and bodhicitta, and purity, understanding, or realization of the Vaj
rayana teachings. Those are foundations of the practices, those are the central columns of the
practices.
When we achieve that, exactly what we're thinking, when we got that, when we are known as
enlightenment, Buddha hoped. So it is, everything, whole practice of the Buddha teaching is best
upon this good motivation. That is what we are really revering by the teaching of the Buddha.
So, for that reason, we should not forget or ignore the basic essentials, goodness, and so reactiv
ate it. With this, then we'll go on the teaching.
In the teaching, as we're going slowly, any little details and reminding to each of us of this,
what gracious, great Master, His Holist taught.
So we really, His Holist, Ikyabjie Dunyum, what we taught. He taught, so we're following that. Then
and here, today we are in the fifth line of this same, and we discussed all those resolvented from
the oneself, from the ocean of samsaric sufferings, those are all we discussed, that and of course
you all know, normally actually.
And today we are in this next line, the trusty that the Three Jewels are the intelligible source of
representatives.
So we go on this. We're going to explore the meaning of this line.
And this is the teachings on the Three Jewels, and as well as how we can connect the Three Jewels.
Those are all the teachings, these teachings. So this is, and so now what Harvard said, Three Jew
els is what it is.
Three Jewels is the intelligible source of refuge.
That is, to make that an intelligible source of refuge, how we should, we should trust, trust in
confidence.
So there is highlighted three points of this line.
Three Jewels, Three Jewels is the ultimate source of object of refuge.
And then how we should explore, how we should make that as happen with our trust, with our
confidence.
That is what really this teaching is. So this is also another one, this is the teachings on the
refuge.
Refuge is the foundation of the entire Buddha teaching or the practices.
Refuge is also one way and one way Buddha gives the teaching.
And you worry, all the teachings what we're talking about, over 45 years, Buddha gives teachings.
Those all teaching can be summarized into three categories as we all know.
Vinaya, Sutra and Abhidhamma.
The essence or the meaning of those three teachings, principle teachings, is teachings on the moral
ities,
teachings on the concentration, teachings on the resistance.
That is what is. What is the reach of enlightenment? What is the discover of our beautiful nature?
The Buddha nature, we need these three principles, teachings.
We need morality, we need concentration, we need resistance.
Why is this? Because we need morality or ethics.
Our present ethics is very irregularity, very wild and not beneficial and also not practical, not
simple.
So therefore we have to have beautiful ethics.
This ethic is also lined up with our nature, nature of the mind. It's lined up with our joy,
respect, appreciation, contentment and then loving kindness.
This is lined up that. So therefore this ethic is very so, morality is so important.
Rafuddhi is also, in other words, it is the foundation of the moralities.
Rafuddhi. When we take Rafuddhi in the Buddha, Dharma and Sangha, what it will bring us, it will
bring calm.
Calm it to the mind. Bring calm and peace to the mind.
We need to bring the calm and peace to the mind.
What it does, immediately it will reflect to our verbal communication, verbal trust.
It also will bring more gentle, more polite, more soft, more respectful speech or communication.
And that will also reflect the same thing to the physical.
Our activity of the physical will look more calm, more peaceful, more gentle.
So therefore this morality is so important.
What in the teaching said, morality is the foundation.
Foundation has like everything and best all our realization of the enlightenment and the
development of enlightenment.
Growth of enlightenment is the best of the morality. Morality is like ground. Morality is like
earth.
Earth. And earth is the best of everyone.
One. Those who are in the teaching always said, of course it is true.
Whether it will move or whether it will not move, earth is the best of everything.
And movable and amovable. So best is earth.
Similarly, its morality is grown of every realization and fulfillment and spiritual growth.
And therefore, refuge is the central column of the morality.
And for that reason, in the teaching said, with all the refuge you will not have vows.
So that means with all the refuge we will not have the Parthi Moksha vows,
we will not have the Bodhisattva vows, and we will not have the vows of the Vedayan vows.
And that also means with all the refuge we will not have the empowerment, transmissions, all this.
Therefore, this is really the foundation.
Foundation, at the same time, refuge is the first step towards enlightenment.
Now, how long have we been in samsara? According to the gracious teacher,
the Bodhisattva's teaching, we have been in samsara for so long.
There are even no numbers. Number less.
But when we take refuge, we are determined to change the direction of our samsara situation.
We are not going to go continually as a rollercoaster or rolling the boulder from the hill going
continually moving.
No, we like to put the stop. We are going to set the direction to our own destination of the future
.
From now on, refuge is the beginning of that direction.
Beginning of putting brakes to our own, what's called, brakes to the car.
That's really what refuge is. And as I said, refuge is also without, we are stepping to the border
of the Nirvana.
Refuge is where we are entering the path.
As the gracious teacher of Bodhisattva said, part truth.
We now really begin the journey to the part truth.
It's the beginning of the part truth.
And this is what we begin.
This journey, this part truth, is not difficult, or hard chair, or changing some of our lifestyles.
It's the only we setting up with love, kindness, compassion, or concentration, and moving forward
with mindfulness.
It is beautiful. It is special because it benefits to us, and as well as our one's own self, as
well as others, such as our friends, payment members, all that.
So that is what really refuge is. It's so important.
Refuge is not just we take refuge one time and then kind of forget. We will say, continue the
refuge until we get enlightenment, until we become the border.
Refuge is our walking steps, or the vehicle that really move, continue. We move that, continue, and
carry that, and always keep that.
And how are we going to keep that? With the courage, commitment, confidence, as is on the Dunyul
Mutti, or Japje Dunyul Mutti pointed out there, trust it.
With trust, we move that.
So this is the general kind of explanation, overview of this refuge and three jewels.
Now I talk really about the three jewels. Three jewels, in Sanskrit word, three retinas, three ret
inas.
And it is translated in Tibet by each of those great emanated translators in the 8th century.
"Kon-cho-some." "Kon-cho-some" means, what it means, is simply translated three jewels.
But "Kon-cho-some" is more than three jewels.
What in it a very word "Kon" means, the rare, R-A-R-E, rare. And "cho" means supreme. It's not
supreme, so this is not just the jewels.
It's a supreme, rare jewel. Rare jewel, and just an example, only example, these jewels won't carry
all the qualities of the three jewels.
Jewels, they don't matter, but they just use examples. It's more than that.
Three jewels is, three jewels is loving kindness. Three jewels is compassion. Three jewels is
worship.
Three jewels is respecting the apprehensions to all the living beings without any disconnections.
And that three jewels is love and kindness and compassion forever for all the sentient beings.
It's not limited by the times and the spaces. And getting all the wishes, wishes of joy,
appreciation, peace, happiness, confidence, support, protection.
That's what really three jewels is when you are connected to these three jewels.
Satisfaction, contentment, and it's performed for four weeks. Therefore, this is called rare and
supreme, the jewel.
And how many days? There's three. And what those of you all know, but I'm going to list again.
And the Chiang Kai names of the three jewels is considering very sacred works.
So, in what I was teaching said, of course, you all know, I take refuge in the Buddha.
I take refuge in the Dharma. I take refuge in the Sangha.
So, Buddha, Dharma, Sangha are the three rare, supreme ones, all three jewels.
So, that is really the old meaning of the three jewels.
And now, I talk really, again, old Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, each of those. A little bit over there.
What is really meaning is the Buddhas. And how many years is the Buddhas, generally?
Generally, speaking about the Buddhas, they call it a great kind, great completionist teacher,
Buddha said.
There are so many Buddhas. Buddhas in east directions, Buddhas in south directions, Buddhas in the
west directions,
Buddhas in the north directions, Buddhas above us, Buddhas below the earth, lower directions.
Those are known as six directions in Buddhism, six cardinal directions in the teaching set, not
just only four cardinal directions.
There are so many Buddhas. There are also in the accord of Buddha's teaching, there are so many
universes in every direction.
In other words, maybe I use "world". There are so many worlds in every direction.
This is not isolated, single, lonely universe where we live. There are so many.
Numberless, also even in the teaching set, numberless, numberless universe in every direction.
And there are those different directions. There are so many enlightened.
So those all are known as the Buddhas. But particularly this time of the Buddha,
or this era of the Buddha in our world, or our universe, whatever we call, in this world is known
as renowned Buddha,
Buddha Shakyamuni, which is the founder of the Buddhism.
This is the first great Master of this time.
And while I'm saying this time, there is also before that, Buddha Shakyamuni, there are many Budd
has that came in this very world.
And there will be also many Buddhas that are going to come in the future.
This Buddha, which I'm talking about the Buddha Shakyamuni, welcomes so many.
In fact, we all know there is one Golden Buddha.
He is planning to come or scheduled to come in this world among them.
Three have gone long time ago. The fourth came and his teachings remain, such as the Buddha Shakyam
uni.
So that means, how many Shakyamuni? 996, 996, 996 Shakyamuni.
So this is the fourth Buddha.
Three Buddhas went before, Buddha Shakyamuni. This is the fourth Buddha, Buddha Shakyamuni.
Now, that is generally about the Buddhas.
But what Buddha means, what a Buddha?
If I say simply, Buddhas are free from all the nakedities and obscurations.
In obscurations, what that means?
Dualities, grasping, clingings, negative emotions, as we were talking the other day,
such as the cause of suffering, truth, those negative emotions, ignorance, attachment, anger,
jealous, erodized, self-important, sub-centered mind, all those all gone, all purified, all gone.
So what is now Buddha is?
The fool of love, fool of compassion, fool of wisdom.
There is nothing higher, deeper, you can grow, grow love and compassion and wisdom.
That is the Buddha what they gain, Buddha gain that.
I mean, there is nothing higher to go.
The realization level, there is nothing higher to go.
That means realization, I'm talking about loving kindness, compassion, wisdom.
The ultimate state they achieve or they attain.
In obscuration and negativity level, everything is removed, purified.
Even the habit of hurting or the strain, the smell of the activities is gone.
The smell of the fragrance or whatever is gone completely.
That the beauty, that embodiment, loving kindness, compassion, wisdom, that is really known as
Buddhism.
So that is really Buddhism.
So this is not just one person. All the Buddhas are similar, same, realization states.
Now when they reach that status, what is, then what they do do, what they will do?
According to the teaching, then they continually benefit from all the living beings,
from all the living beings until they reach enlightenment.
What that also means, according to the Buddha's teaching,
that every living being inherited, same nature or same potential or same college,
then Buddha themselves, there is no difference.
That means this Buddha is once upon a time as regular ordinary beings, ordinary individuals.
As many of ours, like that.
But because of their courage, commitment, determination,
and preserving the loving kind in the compassion and purifying all the negative emotions,
then they become the Buddha.
So every living being has the same opportunities, same potentials,
same status, everyone can reach that same state.
If they walk for that enlightenment.
So once you reach enlightenment of Buddhahood,
these Buddhas are beginning to help all the sentient beings,
according their capabilities, according their readiness,
gently, peacefully, very respectfully, very cooperative level, they are helping.
Helping and supporting, assuring everyone to the part, to the enlightenment
or part to the Nirvana.
That is the one that really this all Buddhas are doing.
So to explain of these Buddhas, how in the teaching state,
and in three different ways that I am going to explain a little bit about the Buddhas.
And fourth is their poems.
Second is their verses.
Third is their activities.
So these three we go through, explore the glance of the college of these great beings.
And the fourth is their bodies.
Bodies are known as in Sanskrit word, Kaya.
Kaya is Sanskrit word, but also Kaya is best of them, best, B-A-S-E, I think best.
What means best?
Because wisdom and activity Buddhas are best on the Kaya anyway.
So therefore, it is known as best.
And how in the debate it is, they were good.
Then Yishi, and they were clean.
This is called three word.
It's best.
So what kind of, what means body?
It's Sanskrit Kaya.
And how many Kayas?
Generally summarize the Kayas.
The four Kayas, that is sometimes also mentioned in five Kayas.
But four Kayas.
And those are popular, that we all know.
Such as Dharma Kaya Buddha, Sambo Kaya,
Nama Kaya, and Soba Kaya.
Those are four Kayas.
So that is really the Kaya.
And Kaya, I translated Kaya as Bodhi,
or it can be poems too, F-O-R-N.
So those are Dharma Kaya, Sambo Kaya,
and Nama Kaya, and then the Soba Kaya.
Or sometimes also as Sasa of the major Dharma Kayas.
Whether Dharma Kaya, Soba Kaya, this is similar.
And in the debate, it is translated by each and tiny,
those great emanated translators in the 8th century.
Chuko, Lungko, Truko, and Mohon Yekos.
Those are the four Kayas.
These four Kayas are, even though they are four Kayas,
but they are the same nature.
Same nature. What that means?
Their loving kindness, compassion, wisdom,
that embodiment, this they are.
Whether it is Soba Kaya, whether it is Dharma Kaya,
and whether it is Sambo Kaya, and whether that is Nama Kaya.
Those are all known as good acts, all the four Kayas.
And now I'm going to stop here for today, and then we will continue.
Thank you very much everyone,
and that's my brief reminding of the word His Holiness.
This is a teaching story, so trying to explore His Holiness,
Jyapji, the ultimate story,
and then we continue the course continually doing this,
and practicing, and dedicating this merit for all the living beings,
particularly this time.
It's just so kind of tense and so terrible situation is happening
around the world and the globe.
And it's just really, that's what we can do.
Igniting our good heart and good motivation,
as told by the great teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni,
and Gurbel Massama, and to do that contribution
toward this difficult time,
is I think something really we can do,
and please we will think that even during the meditating
and then healing practices, we all are going to do this.
And just really thinking, to purify this suffering,
the difficulty, troubles, challenges.
And this is just a reminder to us.
There is samsara, so many difficulties, troubles,
just goes on and on.
For that reason, what great teacher Buddha Shakyamuni
and all those great massa have told,
told, may all living beings have the happiness and the cause of happiness.
May all living beings free from suffering and the cause of sufferings.
May all living beings have never, may all living beings
always have the supreme happiness,
which is never separated from suffering.
May they always remain great economically.
The close ones, and as well as to the distant ones, economically.
I mean, that's really so powerful, so true to the heart.
And also so down to the earth, simple, yet powerful.
Prayers, we should pray these things to you,
along with our healing practices, thinking of those who are only in the evening.
And in dedicating this, our merit is to all the living beings who are sick,
who are, like process, sick, who pass away,
or who is having difficulty, troubles, whatever, experiences, really do this.
That is not a thing, activity of the bodhisattvas.
When we follow the footsteps of the kines, our lokrihora,
manjushiri, Vaidyapani, and Buddhahajaktamani,
Gaurabhama sambhava, Tara, and all the great enlightened beings,
we really follow that.
It is great to everyone, so good.
And okay, just as I'm talking to you all,
and of course you all know these things,
we all know kind of these things,
this really activated is so wonderful.
And thank you again, thank you very much for the body spinning,
and now we do a short meditation.